{\rtf1\ansi\deff0\deftab1200{\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss MS Sans Serif;}{\f1\froman\fcharset2 Symbol;}{\f2\fswiss Arial;}{\f3\fswiss\fprq2 Arial;}{\f4\fmodern\fprq5 Courier New;}{\f5\fswiss Arial;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red100\green100\blue100;\red0\green0\blue255;\red10\green10\blue160;}\deflang2057\pard\plain\f2\fs20\cf1\par {\fs28\b\ul UK Data Archive Data Dictionary\par\par }{\b\f2\fs20\cf1\ File-level information:\par\par }{\f2\fs20\cf1 File Name = 		\f2\fs20\cf5bcs3derived\par }{\f2\fs20\cf1 Number of variables = 	\f2\fs20\cf5 17\par }{\f2\fs20\cf1 Number of cases = 	\f2\fs20\cf5 14868\par\par\par }{\f2\fs20\cf1\b Variable-level information:\par }{\cf1\b\par Pos. = }{\f2\fs20\cf4 1	}{\b\cf1 Variable = }{\f2\fs20\cf4 bcsid	}{\b\cf1 Variable label = }{\cf4 research case identifier\par 	}{\cf3\ul\fs16 Value label information for bcsid\par }{\cf1\b\par Pos. = }{\f2\fs20\cf4 2	}{\b\cf1 Variable = }{\f2\fs20\cf4 bd3cntry	}{\b\cf1 Variable label = }{\cf4 Country of Interview (1980)\par }{\cf3 This variable is  }{\cf5\i numeric}{\cf3, the SPSS measurement level is }{\cf5\i NOMINAL\par }{\cf1 SPSS user missing values = \cf4 -1.0 \cf1\fs16\ thru \cf4\fs20 None\par 	}{\cf3\ul\fs16 Value label information for bd3cntry\par }{\cf1\fs16	Value = }{\cf4\fs16 -1.0	}{\cf1\fs16 Label = }{\cf4\fs16 Unknown\par }{\cf1\fs16	Value = }{\cf4\fs16 1.0	}{\cf1\fs16 Label = }{\cf4\fs16 England\par }{\cf1\fs16	Value = }{\cf4\fs16 2.0	}{\cf1\fs16 Label = }{\cf4\fs16 Wales\par }{\cf1\fs16	Value = }{\cf4\fs16 3.0	}{\cf1\fs16 Label = }{\cf4\fs16 Scotland\par }{\cf1\fs16	Value = }{\cf4\fs16 4.0	}{\cf1\fs16 Label = }{\cf4\fs16 Northern Ireland\par }{\cf1\b\par Pos. = }{\f2\fs20\cf4 3	}{\b\cf1 Variable = }{\f2\fs20\cf4 bd3regn	}{\b\cf1 Variable label = }{\cf4 Standard Region of residence (1980)\par }{\cf3 This variable is  }{\cf5\i numeric}{\cf3, the SPSS measurement level is }{\cf5\i NOMINAL\par }{\cf1 SPSS user missing values = \cf4 -1.0 \cf1\fs16\ thru \cf4\fs20 None\par 	}{\cf3\ul\fs16 Value label information for bd3regn\par }{\cf1\fs16	Value = }{\cf4\fs16 -2.0	}{\cf1\fs16 Label = }{\cf4\fs16 Armed Services\par }{\cf1\fs16	Value = }{\cf4\fs16 -1.0	}{\cf1\fs16 Label = }{\cf4\fs16 Unknown\par }{\cf1\fs16	Value = }{\cf4\fs16 1.0	}{\cf1\fs16 Label = }{\cf4\fs16 North\par }{\cf1\fs16	Value = }{\cf4\fs16 2.0	}{\cf1\fs16 Label = }{\cf4\fs16 Yorks and Humberside\par }{\cf1\fs16	Value = }{\cf4\fs16 3.0	}{\cf1\fs16 Label = }{\cf4\fs16 East Midlands\par }{\cf1\fs16	Value = }{\cf4\fs16 4.0	}{\cf1\fs16 Label = }{\cf4\fs16 East Anglia\par }{\cf1\fs16	Value = }{\cf4\fs16 5.0	}{\cf1\fs16 Label = }{\cf4\fs16 South East\par }{\cf1\fs16	Value = }{\cf4\fs16 6.0	}{\cf1\fs16 Label = }{\cf4\fs16 South West\par }{\cf1\fs16	Value = }{\cf4\fs16 7.0	}{\cf1\fs16 Label = }{\cf4\fs16 West Midlands\par }{\cf1\fs16	Value = }{\cf4\fs16 8.0	}{\cf1\fs16 Label = }{\cf4\fs16 North West\par }{\cf1\fs16	Value = }{\cf4\fs16 9.0	}{\cf1\fs16 Label = }{\cf4\fs16 Wales\par }{\cf1\fs16	Value = }{\cf4\fs16 10.0	}{\cf1\fs16 Label = }{\cf4\fs16 Scotland\par }{\cf1\fs16	Value = }{\cf4\fs16 11.0	}{\cf1\fs16 Label = }{\cf4\fs16 Northern Ireland\par }{\cf1\fs16	Value = }{\cf4\fs16 12.0	}{\cf1\fs16 Label = }{\cf4\fs16 Overseas\par }{\cf1\b\par Pos. = }{\f2\fs20\cf4 4	}{\b\cf1 Variable = }{\f2\fs20\cf4 bd3psoc	}{\b\cf1 Variable label = }{\cf4 (Derived) Social class from fathers occupation (or mothers if missing) (c3.4 + c3.11)\par }{\cf3 This variable is  }{\cf5\i numeric}{\cf3, the SPSS measurement level is }{\cf5\i NOMINAL\par }{\cf1 SPSS user missing values = \cf4 -1.0 \cf1\fs16\ thru \cf4\fs20 -2.0\par 	}{\cf3\ul\fs16 Value label information for bd3psoc\par }{\cf1\fs16	Value = }{\cf4\fs16 -2.0	}{\cf1\fs16 Label = }{\cf4\fs16 sysmis\par }{\cf1\fs16	Value = }{\cf4\fs16 -1.0	}{\cf1\fs16 Label = }{\cf4\fs16 insufficient/no data\par }{\cf1\fs16	Value = }{\cf4\fs16 1.0	}{\cf1\fs16 Label = }{\cf4\fs16 V unskilled\par }{\cf1\fs16	Value = }{\cf4\fs16 2.0	}{\cf1\fs16 Label = }{\cf4\fs16 IV partly-skilled\par }{\cf1\fs16	Value = }{\cf4\fs16 3.0	}{\cf1\fs16 Label = }{\cf4\fs16 III manual\par }{\cf1\fs16	Value = }{\cf4\fs16 4.0	}{\cf1\fs16 Label = }{\cf4\fs16 III non manual\par }{\cf1\fs16	Value = }{\cf4\fs16 5.0	}{\cf1\fs16 Label = }{\cf4\fs16 II managerial and Technical\par }{\cf1\fs16	Value = }{\cf4\fs16 6.0	}{\cf1\fs16 Label = }{\cf4\fs16 I professional\par }{\cf1\b\par Pos. = }{\f2\fs20\cf4 5	}{\b\cf1 Variable = }{\f2\fs20\cf4 bd3ben	}{\b\cf1 Variable label = }{\cf4 (Derived) Received state benefit last 12 months? (c8.1 to c8.11)\par }{\cf3 This variable is  }{\cf5\i numeric}{\cf3, the SPSS measurement level is }{\cf5\i NOMINAL\par }{\cf1 SPSS user missing values = \cf4 -1.0 \cf1\fs16\ thru \cf4\fs20 None\par 	}{\cf3\ul\fs16 Value label information for bd3ben\par }{\cf1\fs16	Value = }{\cf4\fs16 -1.0	}{\cf1\fs16 Label = }{\cf4\fs16 Not computed\par }{\cf1\fs16	Value = }{\cf4\fs16 0.0	}{\cf1\fs16 Label = }{\cf4\fs16 no\par }{\cf1\fs16	Value = }{\cf4\fs16 1.0	}{\cf1\fs16 Label = }{\cf4\fs16 yes\par }{\cf1\b\par Pos. = }{\f2\fs20\cf4 6	}{\b\cf1 Variable = }{\f2\fs20\cf4 bd3inc	}{\b\cf1 Variable label = }{\cf4 (Derived) Gross weekly family income (c9.1 to c9.8)\par }{\cf3 This variable is  }{\cf5\i numeric}{\cf3, the SPSS measurement level is }{\cf5\i NOMINAL\par }{\cf1 SPSS user missing values = \cf4 -1.0 \cf1\fs16\ thru \cf4\fs20 8.0\par 	}{\cf3\ul\fs16 Value label information for bd3inc\par }{\cf1\fs16	Value = }{\cf4\fs16 -1.0	}{\cf1\fs16 Label = }{\cf4\fs16 no info\par }{\cf1\fs16	Value = }{\cf4\fs16 0.0	}{\cf1\fs16 Label = }{\cf4\fs16 £250 +\par }{\cf1\fs16	Value = }{\cf4\fs16 1.0	}{\cf1\fs16 Label = }{\cf4\fs16 £200 - £249\par }{\cf1\fs16	Value = }{\cf4\fs16 2.0	}{\cf1\fs16 Label = }{\cf4\fs16 £150 - £199\par }{\cf1\fs16	Value = }{\cf4\fs16 3.0	}{\cf1\fs16 Label = }{\cf4\fs16 £100 - £149\par }{\cf1\fs16	Value = }{\cf4\fs16 4.0	}{\cf1\fs16 Label = }{\cf4\fs16 £50 - £99\par }{\cf1\fs16	Value = }{\cf4\fs16 5.0	}{\cf1\fs16 Label = }{\cf4\fs16 £35 - £49\par }{\cf1\fs16	Value = }{\cf4\fs16 6.0	}{\cf1\fs16 Label = }{\cf4\fs16 under £35\par }{\cf1\fs16	Value = }{\cf4\fs16 8.0	}{\cf1\fs16 Label = }{\cf4\fs16 refused\par }{\cf1\b\par Pos. = }{\f2\fs20\cf4 7	}{\b\cf1 Variable = }{\f2\fs20\cf4 bd3age	}{\b\cf1 Variable label = }{\cf4 (Derived) Age of cohort member when sat assessments (derived from i2503, i2503m, i2503y)\par }{\cf3 This variable is  }{\cf5\i numeric}{\cf3, the SPSS measurement level is }{\cf5\i NOMINAL\par }{\cf1 SPSS user missing values = \cf4 -1.0 \cf1\fs16\ thru \cf4\fs20 None\par 	}{\cf3\ul\fs16 Value label information for bd3age\par }{\cf1\fs16	Value = }{\cf4\fs16 -3.0	}{\cf1\fs16 Label = }{\cf4\fs16 Not stated\par }{\cf1\fs16	Value = }{\cf4\fs16 -1.0	}{\cf1\fs16 Label = }{\cf4\fs16 Not computed\par }{\cf1\b\par Pos. = }{\f2\fs20\cf4 8	}{\b\cf1 Variable = }{\f2\fs20\cf4 bd3rread	}{\b\cf1 Variable label = }{\cf4 (Derived) Edinburgh Reading Test score (i3003 to i3069)\par }{\cf3 This variable is  }{\cf5\i numeric}{\cf3, the SPSS measurement level is }{\cf5\i NOMINAL\par }{\cf1 SPSS user missing values = \cf4 -1.0 \cf1\fs16\ thru \cf4\fs20 None\par 	}{\cf3\ul\fs16 Value label information for bd3rread\par }{\cf1\fs16	Value = }{\cf4\fs16 -1.0	}{\cf1\fs16 Label = }{\cf4\fs16 Not computed\par }{\cf1\b\par Pos. = }{\f2\fs20\cf4 9	}{\b\cf1 Variable = }{\f2\fs20\cf4 bd3read	}{\b\cf1 Variable label = }{\cf4 (Derived) Standardised Edinburgh Reading Test score (b10read)\par }{\cf3 This variable is  }{\cf5\i numeric}{\cf3, the SPSS measurement level is }{\cf5\i NOMINAL\par }{\cf1 SPSS user missing values = \cf4 -1.0 \cf1\fs16\ thru \cf4\fs20 None\par 	}{\cf3\ul\fs16 Value label information for bd3read\par }{\cf1\fs16	Value = }{\cf4\fs16 -1.0	}{\cf1\fs16 Label = }{\cf4\fs16 Not computed\par }{\cf1\b\par Pos. = }{\f2\fs20\cf4 10	}{\b\cf1 Variable = }{\f2\fs20\cf4 bd3rdage	}{\b\cf1 Variable label = }{\cf4 (Derived) Estimated reading age at age 10 (derived from zb10read and average age)\par }{\cf3 This variable is  }{\cf5\i numeric}{\cf3, the SPSS measurement level is }{\cf5\i NOMINAL\par }{\cf1 SPSS user missing values = \cf4 -1.0 \cf1\fs16\ thru \cf4\fs20 None\par 	}{\cf3\ul\fs16 Value label information for bd3rdage\par }{\cf1\fs16	Value = }{\cf4\fs16 -1.0	}{\cf1\fs16 Label = }{\cf4\fs16 Not computed\par }{\cf1\b\par Pos. = }{\f2\fs20\cf4 11	}{\b\cf1 Variable = }{\f2\fs20\cf4 bd3maths	}{\b\cf1 Variable label = }{\cf4 (Derived) Friendly Maths Test score (i2504 to i2575)\par }{\cf3 This variable is  }{\cf5\i numeric}{\cf3, the SPSS measurement level is }{\cf5\i NOMINAL\par }{\cf1 SPSS user missing values = \cf4 -1.0 \cf1\fs16\ thru \cf4\fs20 None\par 	}{\cf3\ul\fs16 Value label information for bd3maths\par }{\cf1\fs16	Value = }{\cf4\fs16 -1.0	}{\cf1\fs16 Label = }{\cf4\fs16 Not computed\par }{\cf1\b\par Pos. = }{\f2\fs20\cf4 12	}{\b\cf1 Variable = }{\f2\fs20\cf4 bd3min	}{\b\cf1 Variable label = }{\cf4 (Derived) CM parent has information on at least 1 Malaise question\par }{\cf3 This variable is  }{\cf5\i numeric}{\cf3, the SPSS measurement level is }{\cf5\i NOMINAL\par 	}{\cf3\ul\fs16 Value label information for bd3min\par }{\cf1\fs16	Value = }{\cf4\fs16 0.0	}{\cf1\fs16 Label = }{\cf4\fs16 no info\par }{\cf1\fs16	Value = }{\cf4\fs16 1.0	}{\cf1\fs16 Label = }{\cf4\fs16 info at age 10\par }{\cf1\b\par Pos. = }{\f2\fs20\cf4 13	}{\b\cf1 Variable = }{\f2\fs20\cf4 bd3mmal	}{\b\cf1 Variable label = }{\cf4 (Derived) CM parent total Malaise score\par }{\cf3 This variable is  }{\cf5\i numeric}{\cf3, the SPSS measurement level is }{\cf5\i NOMINAL\par }{\cf1 SPSS user missing values = \cf4 -1.0 \cf1\fs16\ thru \cf4\fs20 -2.0\par 	}{\cf3\ul\fs16 Value label information for bd3mmal\par }{\cf1\fs16	Value = }{\cf4\fs16 -2.0	}{\cf1\fs16 Label = }{\cf4\fs16 not stated any questions\par }{\cf1\fs16	Value = }{\cf4\fs16 -1.0	}{\cf1\fs16 Label = }{\cf4\fs16 incomplete info\par }{\cf1\b\par Pos. = }{\f2\fs20\cf4 14	}{\b\cf1 Variable = }{\f2\fs20\cf4 bd3mmalb	}{\b\cf1 Variable label = }{\cf4 (Derived) CM parent total Malaise score - grouped based on distribution\par }{\cf3 This variable is  }{\cf5\i numeric}{\cf3, the SPSS measurement level is }{\cf5\i NOMINAL\par }{\cf1 SPSS user missing values = \cf4 -1.0 \cf1\fs16\ thru \cf4\fs20 -2.0\par 	}{\cf3\ul\fs16 Value label information for bd3mmalb\par }{\cf1\fs16	Value = }{\cf4\fs16 -2.0	}{\cf1\fs16 Label = }{\cf4\fs16 not stated any questions\par }{\cf1\fs16	Value = }{\cf4\fs16 -1.0	}{\cf1\fs16 Label = }{\cf4\fs16 incomplete info\par }{\cf1\fs16	Value = }{\cf4\fs16 1.0	}{\cf1\fs16 Label = }{\cf4\fs16 0-80th centile - normal behaviour\par }{\cf1\fs16	Value = }{\cf4\fs16 2.0	}{\cf1\fs16 Label = }{\cf4\fs16 81st-95th centile-mod. behaviour probs\par }{\cf1\fs16	Value = }{\cf4\fs16 3.0	}{\cf1\fs16 Label = }{\cf4\fs16 95+ centile - severe behaviour problems\par }{\cf1\b\par Pos. = }{\f2\fs20\cf4 15	}{\b\cf1 Variable = }{\f2\fs20\cf4 bd3in	}{\b\cf1 Variable label = }{\cf4 (Derived) CM parent has information on at least 1 Rutter question\par }{\cf3 This variable is  }{\cf5\i numeric}{\cf3, the SPSS measurement level is }{\cf5\i NOMINAL\par 	}{\cf3\ul\fs16 Value label information for bd3in\par }{\cf1\fs16	Value = }{\cf4\fs16 0.0	}{\cf1\fs16 Label = }{\cf4\fs16 no info\par }{\cf1\fs16	Value = }{\cf4\fs16 1.0	}{\cf1\fs16 Label = }{\cf4\fs16 info at age 10\par }{\cf1\b\par Pos. = }{\f2\fs20\cf4 16	}{\b\cf1 Variable = }{\f2\fs20\cf4 bd3mrutt	}{\b\cf1 Variable label = }{\cf4 (Derived) CM parent total Rutter behaviour score\par }{\cf3 This variable is  }{\cf5\i numeric}{\cf3, the SPSS measurement level is }{\cf5\i NOMINAL\par }{\cf1 SPSS user missing values = \cf4 -1.0 \cf1\fs16\ thru \cf4\fs20 -2.0\par 	}{\cf3\ul\fs16 Value label information for bd3mrutt\par }{\cf1\fs16	Value = }{\cf4\fs16 -2.0	}{\cf1\fs16 Label = }{\cf4\fs16 not stated any questions\par }{\cf1\fs16	Value = }{\cf4\fs16 -1.0	}{\cf1\fs16 Label = }{\cf4\fs16 incomplete info\par }{\cf1\b\par Pos. = }{\f2\fs20\cf4 17	}{\b\cf1 Variable = }{\f2\fs20\cf4 bd3mrutg	}{\b\cf1 Variable label = }{\cf4 (Derived) CM parent total Rutter behaviour score - grouped\par }{\cf3 This variable is  }{\cf5\i numeric}{\cf3, the SPSS measurement level is }{\cf5\i NOMINAL\par }{\cf1 SPSS user missing values = \cf4 -1.0 \cf1\fs16\ thru \cf4\fs20 -2.0\par 	}{\cf3\ul\fs16 Value label information for bd3mrutg\par }{\cf1\fs16	Value = }{\cf4\fs16 -2.0	}{\cf1\fs16 Label = }{\cf4\fs16 not stated any questions\par }{\cf1\fs16	Value = }{\cf4\fs16 -1.0	}{\cf1\fs16 Label = }{\cf4\fs16 incomplete info\par }{\cf1\fs16	Value = }{\cf4\fs16 1.0	}{\cf1\fs16 Label = }{\cf4\fs16 0-80th centile - normal behaviour\par }{\cf1\fs16	Value = }{\cf4\fs16 2.0	}{\cf1\fs16 Label = }{\cf4\fs16 81st-95th centile-mod. behaviour probs\par }{\cf1\fs16	Value = }{\cf4\fs16 3.0	}{\cf1\fs16 Label = }{\cf4\fs16 95+ centile - severe behaviour problems\par }}